# Customer Segmentation of Mall Visitors

In Data Analytics we often have very large data (many observations - "rows in a flat file"), which are however similar to each other hence we may want to organize them in a few clusters with similar observations within each cluster. For example, in the case of customer data, even though we may have data from millions of customers, these customers may only belong to a few segments: customers are similar within each segment but different across segments. We may often want to analyze each segment separately, as they may behave differently (e.g. different market segments may have different product preferences and behavioral patterns).

In such situations, to identify segments in the data one can use statistical techniques broadly called Clustering techniques. Based on how we define "similarities" and "differences" between data observations (e.g. customers or assets), which can also be defined mathematically using distance metrics, one can find different segmentation solutions. A key ingredient of clustering and segmentation is exactly the definition of these distance metrics (between observations), which need to be defined creatively based on contextual knowledge and not only using "black box" mathematical equations and techniques.

Clustering techniques are used to group data/observations in a few segments so that data within any segment are similar while data across segments are different. Defining what we mean when we say "similar" or "different" observations is a key part of cluster analysis which often requires a lot of contextual knowledge and creativity beyond what statistical tools can provide. Cluster analysis is used in a variety of applications. For example it can be used to identify consumer segments, or competitive sets of products, or groups of assets whose prices co-move, or for geo-demographic segmentation, etc. In general it is often necessary to split our data into segments and perform any subsequent analysis within each segment in order to develop (potentially more refined) segment-specific insights. This may be the case even if there are no intuitively "natural" segments in our data.

